[ Music ]
One of the great debates
throughout history has been the
nature of the origin
of the human species.
In the west it's been a
very narrow debate siding
with either religion
or Darwinism.
If we look into ancient and
eastern cultures however,
a much more complex
history arises.
One that acknowledges that
humanity has risen and fallen
on numerous occasions.
Each epoch bring its own
opportunity for learning.
Raymond Tarpey has
studied them all and says
that life is the
art of discovery
of who we are and what we are.
And it's so good to
sit with you again.
We were last together on
a sacred day; 11-11-11.
Ray Tarpey: That's correct.
And this was a gathering
of the crystal skulls
from around the world
and the Shamanic view
of what these times offer
and you were the scholar
amongst the group.
I mean it was wonderful.
[Inaudible] was there...
Ray Tarpey: Yeah.
...with his beautiful
skull; beautiful man.
Ray Tarpey: He has
it in the blood.
Yes. Ray Tarpey: You can
just feel when [inaudible]
when I began to talk
at the first interview.
He looked at me and he
went -- and it was just...
Yeah. Ray Tarpey:
...a million years
of communication went
through in seconds.
Split second.
It's almost as though you
have been a scribe throughout
the ages.
Ray Tarpey: Yes.
I mean that's how
I perceive you.
Ray Tarpey: Yeah.
You're -- whatever we start
talking about you can go
on a hundred different
streams of consciousness.
I mean you're -- and I know
that you formally have educated
yourself to a very high degree.
But to me it's a
lot more than that.
Ray Tarpey: It's a -- yeah.
You're bringing forward
ancient knowledge as a scribe...
Ray Tarpey: Yeah.
...from ancient times.
Much more profound than just
the studies you've done.
Ray Tarpey: Yeah, it's the
habit of study and I found
that if one studies,
one can lead.
If one doesn't study, one has
to follow the ones who do.
And so it's important
not just that I do it,
that everybody begins to study
because then we have a citizenry
that will not follow
leaders into blind alleys.
Yes, which we're doing
in the masses right now.
Ray Tarpey: Many times
[laughter], many times.
And we've done it
as civilizations...
Ray Tarpey: Yes.
...over, and over again.
We're going to talk about that.
Ray Tarpey: Yes.
This conversation is
about the origins.
We're going to have a second
conversation about the rise
and fall on numerous occasions
of the Alantean civilization.
Ray Tarpey: Yes.
Which has to do with
where we are right now.
Ray Tarpey: Correct.
Quite literally.
But one thing you say to
start this conversation is
that you consider the
word and concept belief...
Ray Tarpey: Yes.
...as a no-no.
Just let's dig into that.
Why is that?
Ray Tarpey: Well
in our culture --
our culture is largely Germanic.
I won't get into that,
I'm still doing research
on that right now.
But it's -- belief is a
German word and it consists
of to be -- and then leaden.
Leaden is the verb to
be in love or to prefer.
And we all know if
we are in love
with something we
have huge blind spots.
And so a person that has beliefs
is therefore not listening
equally to all the
other theories.
They've already decided.
And in the face of the
intelligence that we are
in the midst of we don't
have the right to do that.
We have to keep all
quadrants open
so that we can receive signals
from the intended sources
of this universe which is
a living, intelligent body
that we interface
with every second.
And when we look at --
I mean people can
already get a hint here
that you have taken yourself
into all these four corners.
And I mentioned this when
I was introducing you.
The narrow band of options that
we have utilized in the west
of either Judeo Christian
view or Darwinism;
both have huge gaping holes.
Ray Tarpey: Yes.
As you say blind -- there are...
...blind spots there and
yet, the belief runs so deep
that we somehow find a way
to rationalize either one...
Ray Tarpey: Yes.
...as our total reality.
That's the belief
you're talking about.
Ray Tarpey: That's
the belief and it has
to do with culture also.
We have the separate
cultures they're like species,
almost like plants are.
That's part of the design of it.
The -- I love the
Chinese/Japanese/Korean metaphor
of the frog in the well.
The frog sits at the bottom
of the well and looks up
and sees the circle
-- the sky and thinks
that that's the whole sky.
And that to me is the
metaphor or a culture.
We must go beyond the cultures.
For myself when I
discovered China and I learned
to speak Chinese,
and then Japanese,
and then Irish my own
people's language...
Yeah. Ray Tarpey: ...many other
words and dimensions open up.
Because if you're studying only
in one language it's
been heavily interpreted
and reinterpreted...
Ray Tarpey: Yes.
...in the process.
So you -- give us an idea of
the breadth of your study.
Ray Tarpey: Yes.
You just mentioned it
but it also extends
into Mayan civilizations...
Ray Tarpey: Yes.
...into Tibet.
A little bit more on the
breadth of the knowledge...
Ray Tarpey: Yes.
...that you have gained
from your research.
Ray Tarpey: Right.
Most of my life I've spent --
in my college years I studied
of course Western civilization
and a little bit of African,
but they were mostly
concentrated on themselves
in this culture Western
civilization in the standard.
So of course I go
for the vacuum.
My mind is like that.
And so I wound up
going to Asia --
to China, because
I was in the Army
and I studied Vietnamese
during the war.
And then I found out that
I could just learn it.
I'm born in the year of the
monkey so it's easier for us.
We're good at imitating people.
And so I could just --
people would just look at me
because I could say the words.
It's -- I think I have many
past lives in many cultures
and so I wound up going to
Taiwan; we were not allowed
to go to China proper,
at that time,
but the real China
exists in Taiwan.
Perhaps, even more than
the continental China
at these present --
at this present time.
And what I discovered
was in the language --
language is the main carrier
of the culture and when I went
into that language I found
that their references
were completely different.
The thing that comes to
mind that I learned was
in the West they say that the
whole is the sum of its parts.
In China subconsciously
I realized
that the part is the whole.
That's their saying.
Oh. Ray Tarpey: That's
why the bottom
of the foot is the whole body.
When you study one
thing you do study all.
If you're listening to
nature at the same time.
So culture needn't be --
a single culture
needn't be a block.
Some people can find it
in their own backyard.
Anyway getting back to --
it went from China and then
when I needed the history
of Moldamoria I had to
go to Japan because many
of China's records were burned
by the first emperor Qin
Shi Huang in around two --
the 200's, 300's B.C.E.,
and so their creation story does
not have the same compactness
and summary narration that the
Japanese [foreign word] does.
And so -- and also in order to
find out about China I majored
in Tong Dynastic History;
the Japanese know a lot more
sometimes than the Chinese do
because their records
were destroyed.
But the Chinese -- the Japanese
were students and so I had
to know Japanese also.
Of course.
Ray Tarpey: And so it began.
And so it began [laughter]
and it goes on and on.
Ray Tarpey: Into ancient Mayan
and ancient Nahunta the language
of Mexico and then to ancient
Celtic the Irish language.
I study German, I study French.
To try to get as many
languages in as possible,
to get more of the nuances
of the interpretation
of the intelligence.
And among your studies you're
considered a Casey Scholar.
You have a good amount
of -- you have what?
15, 16 years of Casey...
Ray Tarpey: Yes.
...studies under your
belt at this time
and you've embraced
them as fully
as you have all of
the other studies.
Ray Tarpey: I love
Edgar Casey...
I do too. Ray Tarpey:
...and I love the whole
tradition [laughter].
I do too. And so in this
conversation why don't we begin
with Edgar Casey...
Ray Tarpey: Okay.
...and what flowed
through him --
it wasn't his information it
was what flowed through him --
regarding the origin
of the species
and then we can migrate out...
Ray Tarpey: Okay.
...to the Mayan, the Japanese
and the other reflections...
Ray Tarpey: Sounds
like a great idea.
Yeah and I'm really
interested in...
Ray Tarpey: Okay.
...where connecting
points start popping up.
Ray Tarpey: Okay.
But Edgar Casey -- let's begin
with his version,
his works version.
Ray Tarpey: Yes.
The compilation.
Ray Tarpey: Okay,
that's a tall order.
It is but you know...
Ray Tarpey: Let's
begin, let's just begin.
...let's just go for it.
We have time.
Ray Tarpey: Edgar Casey was a
healer and then in 1923 a person
by the name of Arthur
Lamers from Dayton,
Ohio began asking him
questions about past lives.
And Edgar Casey himself did
not believe in reincarnation.
He was a strict Christian
and he did not know what came
out of him during
these hypnotic trances.
And so he had a major fight with
himself and he had to go back
to the Bible and read it many,
many times to get ballast in him
so he could trust
what he was saying.
And eventually he came to
realize that this is the truth.
And so he had those Dayton years
where he began those
past life readings
and so many people besides
healing they came to him
for other problems
that they were having
and knowledge about themselves.
Why they were involved
in this work
and why they couldn't do
this, or why they couldn't --
they had allergies to this
which no medical reason.
And so the element of
past lives came through.
And out of those many readings
came a coherent story much a
surprise to everybody around
Casey and to Casey himself.
And he did a series of readings
called the 364 Group of Readings
which concerned Atlantis.
And out of that direct -- those
direct readings by people asking
about Atlantis and the single
individual client readings we
get sort of a story
and it begins
with [wind blowing] a
creator, an intelligent force,
and the force seems
to want companionship.
We're just using
these minds to --
and our own intelligence
to consider what it
might possibly be.
And so what came out of the
Casey readings is their --
the creator wants a
companionship, wants a sharing
to go on with parts of itself.
And so beings are created.
Beings that are the
same as itself.
And a universe is created
for them to learn and evolve
so that they will have a --
the same level of love
for the created things
as the creator has.
And so the story with
Edgar Casey begins at one
of these levels about 10
million years ago when beings,
ethereal beings, spirit
beings began to descend
into the earthen realm.
And they came -- he talks
first about New Mexico
in the area of the four corners.
And he said the signs of these
beings can still be seen there.
And I get chills as I
speak to it because...
Yes. Ray Tarpey: ...I've
been there to Chaco Canyon,
and to Casa Grande, and Pueblo
Grande and the signs are there.
What are the signs?
How do recognize them?
Ray Tarpey: One of the major
signs is the letter T. Okay.
Ray Tarpey: It's -- in the Mayan
it's the sign of [foreign word],
the human teacher, the
great human teacher.
He is the American equivalent
of Casey's Ra-Ta or Ra-Ta;
the one who was the
major priest of Egypt
who came from Persia later on.
But anyway, to continue with
the story; these beings began
to become enwrapped incarnately
because this is a
different realm
and they were experimenting and
they're allowed to experiment
because they're given free will.
And free will is a grant,
it's a gift and the gift
of free will is complete.
When free will is given then of
necessity my researchers tell me
that then the creator does not
fully know what you will do.
And that's really key isn't it?
Ray Tarpey: Yes.
Instead of trying to
control outcomes...
Ray Tarpey: Right.
...that the creation
allows for more creation.
Ray Tarpey: Right and so
depending on what we do
and what we did the universe
was expanded in all sort
of myriad ways, so
to give us the stage
to play out what we want.
It is endless, it is
a universe of words.
It is -- what Casey talks
about is a habitation
of all the realms
now invisible to us.
We think they are uninhabited.
He talked about the solar
systems specifically,
and he comes through with a new
version of astrology where Mars
in inhabited right now
by billions of souls.
So are Venus, all the planets;
all of them are inhabited,
but they are in the realm of
dark matter and dark energy
which our quantum physicists
are finally learning about
and realizing that their
starting to sound like a bunch
of spiritual philosophers
now talking,
trying to explain
the standard model.
Their standard model which
grew from their attempt
to understand everything
that's going on here,
and now it's going into realms
that they never predicted
would happen.
Let me ask you a
question at point then.
If these beings, these
thousands and thousands
of souls are living on Mars and
Venus is there a migration back
and forth between
Earth for them?
Ray Tarpey: Lifetimes.
And they can -- lifetimes
of inhabiting Earth...
Ray Tarpey: So he
said your astrology is
from a recent sojourn in Mars.
Oh. Ray Tarpey: Or a
recent sojourn in Venus.
I don't know what the nature
of that life is but it seems
to be a vibration and a
whole other realm of being
that we don't know about.
Because as the quantum
physicists now say most
of the matter and the energy of
the universe is unseen by us,
our senses, or the instruments
that we've created to sense.
Right, so that means they have
to be existing within for lack
of a better term other
dimensional fields.
Ray Tarpey: Correct.
And they're beginning to
see the tip of the iceberg
with the Hicks-Boson Particle.
Yes. Ray Tarpey: That's
just coming through the LHC,
the Large Hadron
Collider in Switzerland.
That's that 17 mile
particle collider there
that they're not getting
ready for further testing
because they've just seen one
small particle; the Hicks-Boson.
And these particles are a field
like gravity is particles.
It's hard for us to
contemplate gravity
as particles giving orders for
things to operate in its realm
and that's why they call
the Hicks-Boson Particle the
God Particle.
Yes. Ray Tarpey: Because it
comes in and changes the speed
of electrons and gives
orders to change masses.
So something from the
other dimensions comes in
and tells these dimensional
objects and forces what to do.
Yes, I mean it is mind boggling.
I remember one of the most
delicate statements I heard --
I was interviewing
Patrick Flannigan...
Ray Tarpey: Yeah.
...and I said, "Patrick,
what is electricity?"
Because it's a common question.
Most people very -- that are
very ensconced in that field
so on what electricity is
and he said quite simply,
"Well it's the flow of electrons
from a higher potential
to a lower potential."
Ray Tarpey: Right.
In other words from
a high dimension...
Ray Tarpey: Yeah.
...into this dimension to be
organized for whatever purpose.
Ray Tarpey: Yeah,
the more dense...
Yes, more dense.
Ray Tarpey: ...and
the less dense.
Yes. And so these beings coming
from Mars and coming from Venus
and many other places; I
assume he was saying there,
that quite a number of humans
inhabiting bodies now have had
this experience...
Ray Tarpey: Yes.
...about migrating from
these other planets...
Ray Tarpey: Yes, multiple.
...in our astrological...
Ray Tarpey: Multiple.
And their astrology,
their predominant astrology is
probably a more recent sojourn
but there are background
sojourns
that come into play also.
Yes. Ray Tarpey:
It's very complex.
It's not as though there
was just a single creation
and Earth is it.
Those very beings may have
as you said, had far --
had sojourns far out
into other fields.
Ray Tarpey: Correct.
Even maybe other
third-dimensional places.
Ray Tarpey: Right.
Prior to this grand what 10
million year old experience.
And I wanted to bring
that up because in one
of Casey's books he was
talking about the Italian man,
the Italian man which is --
I think it's in Basil,
Switzerland.
That skeleton which was found
600 feet under the earth
in Italy was estimated to be
about 10 million years old.
So I bring it up because
it's some physical evidence
apparently that over
lays this Casey timeline.
Ray Tarpey: Yeah.
But the Casey timeline of
10 million years [inaudible]
with the digs that
we have in Africa...
Yes. Ray Tarpey: ...in the
Ethiopian area, where Brings,
Lucy and all those now they're
discovering more and more
and it's bringing back to
about 10 million years.
So Casey's figure of 10
million years based on what --
the dates on the present
surface of the earth.
One of the things that began
to get me to read Edgar Casey
and go beyond mainstream
history, and archaeology,
is that the consideration
that 75%
of the earth's surface is water.
And we presently do
not have the technology
to excavate underwater.
So basically our history, our
archaeology is limited to 25%
of the earth's surface
which we know has changed.
Yes. Ray Tarpey: And
even less than that
because the resources are
limited for the excavation.
So it's all going to change.
I tell people hold
on to your hats.
Don't believe in stuff because
once we get the technology we're
going to find whole other
dimensions and areas of history
and lost continents; not
just Atlantis and Moldomoria,
but the hyperborean that they
talked about in the north.
Yes. Ray Tarpey: That
the Diasophical Society
and Blavatsky talked
about in the 1800's.
The late 1800's.
Okay, so we have these souls
taking material form for play...
Ray Tarpey: Playing.
...for experimentation...
Ray Tarpey: Experimentation.
...and adventure.
Ray Tarpey: Yeah.
And you're placing this is
the four corners region.
Now, let's expand out
and go to [inaudible]...
Ray Tarpey: Yes.
...and then Muria.
A lot of people think that
those are interchangeable.
Ray Tarpey: Yes.
Let's talk about
the differentiation
between the two,
the locations of...
Ray Tarpey: Okay.
...and then that takes us
into the Japanese account.
Ray Tarpey: All right.
Mu Lemuria -- Edgar Casey used
the terms interchangeably.
Most the time he says Mu Lemuria
but he does sometimes
just say Lemuria
and sometimes he just says Mu.
What's the distinction?
Ray Tarpey: Lemuria came into
providence, the providences
in the -- I believe in the
early -- in the late 1800's,
1900's when they were trying to
find out why or how the Lemurs
of Madagascar came from India.
There must have been another
continent between India
and Madagascar and
so in the name
of the Lemur the
called it Lemuria.
And the word Lemur has
other ramifications
because the Romans had
the Feast of Lemuras,
which is their ghost
festival, their Halloween.
So there's a lot of the
intelligence interfering in here
because there's a lot of
interference and plugs coming
in to help us along the way.
So it's not just random.
There are certain souls with
missions to plug in information
to help alone, to
understand our history.
So what was according to
the ancient legends --
what was the nature of Mu?
Ray Tarpey: Yes.
I know we talked off camera
and that you were saying
that was a spiritually
clean environment.
Ray Tarpey: Yes it was...
For those souls.
Ray Tarpey: ...according
to Edgar Casey [inaudible]
Lemuria was the place
of all the civilizations
that have been established
upon the surface of the earth.
It was in Mu Lemuria that
they reached their highest
spirit level.
And Meditron, a person that
channels ancient history too.
I read all of the Meditron
stuff to everybody.
Leave -- I leave nothing
out because we do not know
which soul is appointed
with certain information.
Maybe they're off
base in some...
Yes. Ray Tarpey: ...but some
of the details will be true.
Yes. Ray Tarpey: And
so I read everything.
So what does Meditron
say about Mu Lemuria.
Ray Tarpey: And Meditron says
that they were mostly ethereal
in the early times of Mu Lemuria
so therefore, they could have
that more spiritual...
Ethereal as in -- I
saw ethereal as in...
Ray Tarpey: Ethereal,
yeah ethereal.
Yes. Ray Tarpey: And so
they were more of the ether.
Yes. Ray Tarpey: The [foreign
word], the [foreign word].
Yes. Ray Tarpey:
The [foreign word].
And so it was easier
for them to attain it.
So I don't know what degrees
of hardness or easiness
at those levels because I
don't have that memory yet.
Yes. Ray Tarpey: But
I accept what he says
as a distinct possibility.
Okay and so we know that
Lemuria actually overlapped
with also the ceding of
civilization in the Atlantean,
the upper Atlantean...
Ray Tarpey: Yes.
...there were in communication
with each other according
to Edgar Casey.
Now this is where a
lot of stories come
in that are interesting
regarding the manipulation
genetically and electrically
of the human body or vehicle.
And was that already occurring
in the Lemurian period?
That making arrangements
with the physical species
for the soul to inhabit...
Ray Tarpey: Yes.
...this vehicle that
is known as the human.
Ray Tarpey: Yes, a lot
of work had to be done
because they began to not
just commune with each other,
but commune with material forms
and they could produce
by thought form.
Yes. Ray Tarpey: so they could
produce and Edgar Casey said
that that's the reason for the
pre-civilizational; animal,
humanoid forms that you see
in our mythology and history.
It's not baseless it's true.
They remember more than we
do because they lived earlier
and so we're to listen
to their testimony.
When you say their,
you talking animals?
Ray Tarpey: Ancient people.
The ancient people.
Okay. Ray Tarpey:
And their myths --
their myths are important
because they give us information
from people who remember
things thousands
of years before our
present generation.
So it behooves us to
listen and to read
and in our modern generations
we are starting to do that.
Yes. Okay let's get back to what
you were just speaking about...
Ray Tarpey: Yeah.
...a moment ago.
The beings that have been
known mythologically,
some of them appeared
as Egyptian gods,
others in Greek Mythology
where you have half ram
half man and so forth.
Ray Tarpey: Right.
Now was this something
that occurred
in the ethereal plane
first where there was more
of an immerging of
those two types?
Ray Tarpey: It's a merger
that occurs in middle earth.
What I have called -- what
the Japanese would call
middle earth.
It is a place in-between;
[foreign word] they call it.
Ami is heaven and noca
means in the middle.
And so it occurs in
the meeting place
between the dense area created.
The dense area is originally
created for the beings
that are created to learn
to deal with suffering.
And death will come and appear
and that is an intended
suffering to teach
by our suffering and our
falling do we learn to love.
Otherwise the mind takes over.
The mind is given as a gift
but it is not intended
for us to overuse.
Right. Ray Tarpey: It's more
intended for us to align
with the intelligence rather
than tell the intelligence
what to do.
Yeah absolutely.
Ray Tarpey: Yeah [laughter].
So and the intelligence
of the animal kingdom
was here before --
in the physical realm...
Ray Tarpey: Yes.
...was here before what became
the human merging so to speak.
Ray Tarpey: Right and so
the intelligence is the
grand engineer.
And as the intelligence
sees what we're doing;
oh they're doing that again.
Yeah. Ray Tarpey: Okay, set up
over here, put in over here.
It's like Disney Land,
it's a Disney set.
Yes. Ray Tarpey: And it changes
every moment to interface
with our learning curve.
So in this process
Casey states that many
of the souls became
trapped into...
Ray Tarpey: Yes.
...material realm.
Which kind of -- well I
mean I've heard other...
Ray Tarpey: Yeah.
...stories that are
very similar to this.
Ray Tarpey: Yes.
And in becoming trapped
there became a different kind
of imperative that
occurred at that time.
And can you talk about that
because I think many people
relate to that feeling.
Ray Tarpey: The trapping
is attached to pleasure
because they're getting used
to the pleasure in a new form
and it's an incarnate form.
It's a more dense form
and they love it so much
that they begin to
think that's real.
And they begin to forget
about their true selves
and their own destiny
and where they come from.
We're going through a material
phase in order to learn things.
And that's created
by the creator
to help us as a teaching device.
I've always wondered
how incredibly painful
and frustrating it must
have been to become encased
in the physical without
the ability to create...
Ray Tarpey: Right.
...reality at the speed
of thought anymore.
Ray Tarpey: There's
a sense of loss.
Yes. Ray Tarpey: There's a sense
of fear and we can't explain it.
Yes. Ray Tarpey: It just comes
with the human condition.
It comes with the
animal condition.
It comes with all
incarnate conditions.
And so with that became
the loss of memory.
Ray Tarpey: Yes.
And so -- which for good reason.
I mean what is the point of
carrying forward that memory
when one has no ability
to be able
to access that aspect of self.
Ray Tarpey: Correct.
And so we began to
construct another world
and we constructed civilizations
and we constructed
new mythologies
to explain our origins.
And we -- in order -- and a lot
of these mythologies were
constructed to control.
Okay, let's talk about that.
Ray Tarpey: Yeah.
There are two camps that Edgar
Casey discusses repeatedly
in very consistent channelings.
Ray Tarpey: Right.
These readings are
maybe 10 years apart,
but it'll be the exact same.
Ray Tarpey: Yes.
.He'll go to the exact same
place, location, dynamic...
Ray Tarpey: It becomes
a coherent story.
Exactly. Ray Tarpey: Yeah.
Very coherent.
So one of the things he
talks about is this dichotomy
within the psyche there
where the sons of Belial
and then there were the
sons of the loved one.
Ray Tarpey: Correct.
Now can you explain in essence
what he meant by those --
these two mindsets, or
forces, or types of being?
Ray Tarpey: It seems
to be a sicklical form.
It is a development
in Atlantis of a group
who take the crystal,
the crystal skull.
Originally the crystal
is created
in the earth as a
storage device.
That's why we're
using it right now.
It's intended from
the very beginning.
And so all of it has memory.
And this is the basis
of the crystal skulls.
I didn't realize that
until I got dragged
into the crystal skull...
After 11-11.
Ray Tarpey: ...thing.
Yeah. Ray Tarpey:
Until 11-11-11.
Right. Ray Tarpey: So
I'm a Mayan researcher
and they took me up
a couple of levels.
And so then I realized
that the mind is not ready
until certain points to realize.
Then I began to look at crystal
and what Edgar Casey said
about crystal, and he said that
the original crystal is created
in the earth for us
to be able to commune
with other dimensions."
Yes. Ray Tarpey: But later on
that crystal could become used
in technology and it
could be used to --
for our physical needs
and it could be abused.
So this is where the --
this is where the parting
of the ways philosophically
comes between the sons of Belial
and I mean we could almost...
Ray Tarpey: Yes.
It's the same drama...
...almost in our world right
now which is why we're talking
about it -- and the
followers of one.
Ray Tarpey: Yeah.
The Law of One.
Ray Tarpey: They became
the users and abusers.
The Belial?
Yeah. Ray Tarpey: I call them
the SOB's for short [laughter].
[Multiple Speakers].
Ray Tarpey: They became
the users and abusers.
And as in Plato, when he
discusses it he says --
I'm not sure if it's
Plato or Edgar Casey
but the discussion was,
about things talking
about people as slaves.
I was wondering that about...
Ray Tarpey: As things.
Yes. Ray Tarpey: And so it
gets to that level when you get
into that material culture
and to your own attachments.
Then other beings -- you lose
your respect for the whole thing
and your ego, the
mind is just driving.
And driving the whole
force of civilization.
And it creates its
own mythologies.
So Plato came up with
the allegory of the cave
in the republic I believe
it appeared that he wrote
in the 300 B.C.E., and
he envisioned us all
and I'm very much in
agreement with him -- I just --
my research is leading
me back right to him.
Thousands of years ago where
he said the human condition is
like people sitting
in a large cave
and they're facing the
inner world, the inner wall
of this large cave and the
light sources coming --
the entrance of the
cave is way behind them.
And the light is shining
and there are puppeteers,
days of our civilizations
and the manipulators
who are conducting a
puppet show and it appears
as shadows upon the wall.
And these shadows -- this
shadow world becomes the reality
of the people living
in these civilizations.
Such a beautiful way to put it.
Ray Tarpey: And nobody dares to
turn around and see what's...
Casting those shadows.
Ray Tarpey: ...going on behind
except the people that study.
Who Socrates and Plato
call the "philosophers."
The ones who study the details,
who go away from the assigned
books, the ones who look
for the anomalies
in-between the words.
The little tiny things
that almost appear when --
that when people take these,
the hallucinogenic plants,
like our ancient Mayans and the
[foreign word] people take --
[foreign word] go to Peru.
Their mind tries to
make a scene and all
of a sudden the scene
starts to crack.
And that's the planned
intelligence coming
through to teach us that
that's just a puppet scenario.
Yes. Ray Tarpey: That's
not the real thing.
So now are the puppet -- are the
puppeteers essentially the line
of Belial on a consciousness
scale?
Ray Tarpey: They change
with each generation.
It depends -- as Casey
said, we gain and we lose.
Just because we gain in one
lifetime we can easily go back
and forget and go against
everything we said.
But isn't the -- is the
Law of One acknowledge
that there is no
right, there's no wrong,
there's no good, there's no bad.
Ray Tarpey: There
is no judgment.
There is only one and so we play
out these various scenarios
throughout eternity so to speak.
Ray Tarpey: I love you
say there is only one.
Then you eliminate all
the names that they create
to divide the people...
Yes. Ray Tarpey:
...and conquer them.
There is only once
source of spirit.
It's in everybody the same and
I none one is the great leader
that knows more than you do.
There is a democracy of spirit.
Spirit is always
entirely democratic.
Each soul has equal
intelligence.
No soul is more intelligent than
the other because they're made
of the same spirit
substrates stuff.
And so when we study we
assume our highest level.
We make a decision to
study for ourselves
and stop studying for others.
Yes. Ray Tarpey: Most people
in the civilizations
are studying for others.
I want to be this, I
want to get into that.
It's good but at some
point in our lives we have
to fulfill the ancient
contracts that we've made.
And the Maya talk about
about the ancient contracts.
We must go back and do the
thing that we came here to do.
And come out of the
entertainment field Disney Land.
And then really investigate
why we have certain powers,
why we're good in art and the
other person is not that good
but they're better in math.
But I still have this
other intelligence.
And just stopped comparing.
And to start realizing who
-- what power you have.
I talk a lot to young people.
I still go in and teach and I
teach them about these things.
I teach them to begin
buying your own books.
Don't use the library books.
To begin looking at the
internet, downloading things
from the internet,
they're not --
Wikipedia is my greatest source
because it's not an authority.
Right. Ray Tarpey: Everybody
says it's got holes in it.
Good. I love the holes.
Give me the holes any time.
I don't want the --
somebody's complete steril...
You don't want it
[inaudible] [laughter].
Okay, you brought up the Maya's.
Ray Tarpey: Yes.
Now, I want to go back because
this is something so little know
and you mentioned something off
camera that was so intriguing.
We don't understand
a lot in the west
about the ancient
lore of the east.
Other than what's been passed
on through Buddhism for example.
Ray Tarpey: Yes.
And part of that through the
Casey readings, specifically,
was that there were not a lot of
Asians, nor African-Americans,
nor anyone else besides
Caucasians...
Ray Tarpey: Yes.
...asking questions
of Casey in the day.
So he was only responding
to what was asked.
Ray Tarpey: Yes, yes.
So now you can paint a different
portrait for us through the --
is it called [foreign word]?
Ray Tarpey: Yeah,
the [foreign word].
The [foreign word].
Okay. Let's talk about that
version of our origins.
Ray Tarpey: And the --
as you say the channeler is
limited by the clientele.
By the questions.
Yes. Ray Tarpey: And so if
it's not asked it's not given.
Because it's a sacred
relationship
between the channeler and the
client, and the acoustic record
which is the intelligence
will come through.
An interface with that
soul and it's totally --
it's almost as a
teacher teaches.
There is a readiness level
that the individual soul has
and the [foreign word]
record has to channel
through the nature
of its lifetimes --
what knowledge it's built up
and try to give it knowledge,
give the being knowledge
that can advance it.
Yes. Ray Tarpey: And
that's why it's a caveat
when we interpret
a reading that's
between the channeler
and the client.
Absolutely.
Ray Tarpey: It is
not a religion.
Once we think Casey said
this and Casey said that,
that's your opinion
of what Casey said.
And really the value of his work
is there were just so many that,
common points started merging.
Ray Tarpey: And he
always said it.
Yeah. Ray Tarpey: I am an --
I am not an infallible source.
Yeah. Ray Tarpey: Do not
make me into a religion.
I am not that.
And so anybody arguing
over what Casey said it's a
ridiculous proposition.
Right, there is no point because
he isn't even attached to it.
Ray Tarpey: There is no point.
And he -- and the
followers of the one --
it comes to me now to tell you
-- that the things that drew me
to him immediately was when he
said, "How can anyone culture be
so arrogant as to think that
the Christ would only appear
to them?"
The divine infusion.
The Christ will appear
to all people and walk
with people of every kind.
Because the Chris is a
divine infusion that occurs
at intervals when needed,
because it's a living
being this universe.
And that infusion comes
in at certain key
points when it's needed.
Yes. Okay, so let's take that.
Ray Tarpey: Yeah.
Understanding it
shines at all --
at different times in different
places and go to the Japanese.
Ray Tarpey: Yes.
Let's look at that,
the [foreign word].
Ray Tarpey: Good idea.
Yeah. Ray Tarpey: And the
Japanese Christ [background
music] is described
in the [foreign word].
The [foreign word] means, the
story of the old [inaudible]...
Yeah. Right.
Ray Tarpey: It's kind
of hard to interpret.
Right. But...
Ray Tarpey: Because they're
Chinese characters and...
Physically...
Ray Tarpey: Chinese characters.
You're seeing them in your head
and I say good enough
[laughter].
Ray Tarpey: Are so large.
My favorite line which
to read is Chinese
because western languages it's
like reading on a
10-inch screen.
But when you read Chinese
it's a 17-inch screen.
Okay. Ray Tarpey:
Because hieroglyphics have
such an advantage...
Yeah. Ray Tarpey:
...for the mind.
It fits better.
Yes. That makes sense.
Ray Tarpey: And so this
[foreign word] was -- it's --
what happened was [foreign
word] was a famous limericst
in the 7th Century Japan --
600's of Japan and the emperor
wanted to know the history
of japan because the writing --
Chinese writing was coming
through to Japan at that time.
Japanese were great
students of China.
So the writing is coming through
so they're using Japanese --
Chinese characters to
express their history.
And he goes traveling all
over Japan remembering all the
legends that everybody knew
and he comes back and
nobody debriefed him.
He was just sitting there
because there was a change
of emperors and it was an
empress, Empress Ling May
who finally said, "Let's
get this thing done."
And it was [foreign word]
a fellow by the name
of [foreign word] who
finally wrote it down.
It became the [foreign word]
and it became the [foreign word]
which came a little bit later
which is jumping off of it.
And it talked about
the beginnings
of the Lemurian Theater.
Because Edgar Casey said at
some point in this history
that we've been talking
about this --
when the creator created all
the beings he also created
the Christ.
And what is this Christ?
This Christ he said is
a little bit different.
This Christ is created by amebic
reproduction with the creator.
It was like two ameba coming
apart and it was the same thing.
And this one he named it
Amilius, A-M-I-L-I-U-S;
and he said, "That's
the great over soul."
The one, the director of
incarnation I would call it.
The one who's the [foreign
word] of the -- of Indian.
The one who is conducting
everything for the creator
in the incarnate realm.
The creator itself in his aspect
of a divine infusion
into the incarnate.
It's heavy stuff.
It's hard for this
mind to comprehend.
We'll just go with an over soul.
Ray Tarpey: An over soul.
That is creating on
behalf of the greater...
Ray Tarpey: And so what got
me started was Casey said --
he mentioned that this over
soul in a later incarnation came
about -- he mentioned Amilius
as existing in Atlantis two --
approximately 200,000
years before the appearance
of Ra in India.
Now that's a heavy subject.
I don't want to get
into Indian history.
Right. Ray Tarpey: That's
a heavy subject itself.
But long ago he gave
a mark of 200,000
which I want other people
-- scholars to consider.
And but it could be --
it's sicklical, there are
many other of these cycles...
Yes. Ray Tarpey: ...to consider.
But anyway, at that
point what he said
that Amilius did
was splice himself
into five different beings,
five different entities,
five different Adam and Eve's.
One of them is Mu Lemuria.
One of them is in
the Capetians Europe.
And the one in Mu
Lemuria the color is brown
and they are attached
to the sense of smell.
Because the divine --
we're given five senses
and the divine can be
experienced completely almost
through those five
different senses.
And so you'll hear
the mystics talk
about the fragrance
of God for example.
Because you can experience
the divine, the character
of the intelligence through
that divinely appointed sense
of smell.
And Mu Lemuria is then
the expert in that
and that's what lead
me in my researches.
Okay. Ray Tarpey: And then
for the Europeans the
Capetians he mentions
as another of the first Adam's.
Because for Casey the first
Adam is the last Adam.
The first Christ is going
to be the same Christ
all the way through.
So that's why it's the
followers of the one.
Because the Christ is always
the same in every culture.
It's interfacing
with a different
theater of incarnation.
So it gets a little
complex with the five there.
And so the others
if I can remember,
are the Atlantean
and the American.
And the Atlantean and the
American are the red theater I
call it.
And their expertise
is in feeling.
The American Indian can
feel this place much better
than the other four.
It's their power.
And that's why the American
Indian becomes so important
in my researches because I'm
feeling now what they feel.
And that's why I do the
Mayan calendar reading
because the Mayan
calendar readings,
that ancient instrument
which was allowed to come
through I can express to people
that feeling of the divine
so that they can experience
it in their American selves...
Yes. Ray Tarpey: ...not
their Eurasian selves.
Because they come from
ancestors in the white realm.
In the white realm
the eyes are good.
In the Carpathian incarnation --
theater of incarnation
the eye is supreme.
It's the -- the European
has such marvelous visions.
It sees it has a perfect model.
If we follow this
model we can get there.
But they cannot feel
the suffering
that their model causes
upon the rest of the earth.
They don't -- they see it.
They think it's for the good but
they're limited in their sight,
which is one of the
reasons they were appointed
to come to the America's.
So that they could
begin to learn to feel.
So on a mass psycho-spiritual
level...
Ray Tarpey: Yes.
...the incarnations of some --
I mean a huge majority of people
that are in America now coming
from Europe was to be able
on a spiritual level
to integrate the vision
then with the feeling.
Ray Tarpey: It's
divinely appointed...
Okay. Ray Tarpey: ...migration.
Okay. Ray Tarpey: So
when I mention this
to American Indian -- because
everything is invitation.
I said to one American Indian,
I said, "You invited them here."
And he looked at
me, glared at me,
"We invited them [laughter]?"
It doesn't make sense
in a suffering phase.
Yes. Ray Tarpey: And I explained
to him what my research has
showed is this whole universe;
this dense world
of matter is based
on the principle of sacrifice.
One being sacrifices
completely to the other.
The food chain.
It's built on that.
And so that's just one of
the sacrifices called for
and in our spiritual realm part
of us has agreed by contract
to come in again to do that.
Yes. Ray Tarpey: That
precise sacrifice.
That's why the fall
of us is so important.
Okay now you talked about the
Lemurian which is the sense
of -- the scent of smell.
Ray Tarpey: Yes.
And then we have the American
Atlantean which is feeling.
Ray Tarpey: Feeling.
Then we have the
European which is sight.
Ray Tarpey: Sense of sight.
Now what about the
sense of sound?
What about the African
continent?
Ray Tarpey: Sense of
sound is the Gobi Desert.
Gobi Desert.
Ray Tarpey: The Chinese.
Okay. Ray Tarpey: That's why
they have the tonal language.
It fits. Okay.
Interesting.
Ray Tarpey: It fits.
And their ear is acute.
They can experience the
design through their --
through the sense of hearing.
What -- now what -- where does
African continent come in?
Ray Tarpey: The African
continent has
to do with the blackness.
It's not racial.
Yeah. Ray Tarpey:
It is racial --
it's just an outcome of
the beautiful resonance
that they have in
the spirit realm.
The color describes a resonance
and it's the sense of taste.
Okay. Ray Tarpey: I'm still
doing my researches on that...
Yes. Ray Tarpey: So I won't talk
to you about that right now.
But I found it in
their ancient records.
Okay and then we talked
-- we start hearing the --
of the many people watching
this know of some of the legends
that people such as [foreign
word] and now Michael Salinger
and others talk about
regarding the peopling
of the African continent about
500,000 years ago at the hand
of the Nepaline or another
group of beings that...
Ray Tarpey: The giants.
The giants.
Ray Tarpey: Yes.
That engineered a species...
...for the purposes of work.
But you can look at it again...
Ray Tarpey: Yes.
...if you look at it
as the Law of One.
Perhaps, you know, an
upgrade or a simple...
Ray Tarpey: Yes.
...change to what was
happening at the time.
Ray Tarpey: Yes.
How does that work?
Ray Tarpey: In Greek
history the same thing.
Yes. Ray Tarpey: The Titans.
The Titans yes.
Ray Tarpey: And they're the
new ear formed by the Olympians
and thus the leader who was
one of the sons of the Titans
that Ra -- Ra hid away from him.
Yes. Ray Tarpey: In a cave.
Yes. Ray Tarpey: And
he organized a revolt
of the other sons and
daughters of the Titans
and then they overthrew
the Titans.
So the same story
reverberates...
Over and over.
Ray Tarpey: ...around the world.
Yes. Ray Tarpey: It gets around
and that's what we're
looking for.
Yes is those connecting points.
Ray Tarpey: We're looking for
that ancient memory but we have
to beware of making
it the same story.
Right. Ray Tarpey: There
are different theaters.
Right. Yes.
Ray Tarpey: And different things
can occur on different parts
of the earth because it is
magical and it is mysterious
and our mind does not
comprehend it at this time
and science is just beginning.
Let's talk about
the Mayan version...
Ray Tarpey: Okay.
...of the origins.
Ray Tarpey: Yeah.
This is an area that
you're familiar with.
Ray Tarpey: Yes [laughter].
Very. Ray Tarpey: They got
me started through China.
Yeah. Ray Tarpey: That's -- I --
when I did, we did our first
interview I told you I came
into this because I came
in with the Asian eye.
Yes. Ray Tarpey: And
it suited because I had
to see China in the Maya.
I had to see that
they esteemed jade
above gold just as
the Chinese do.
That they have a symbol
of the Goddess of the Moon
and a rabbit just
as the Chinese do.
And me perplexed how
is this possible?
This is too much.
And many, many other things
that we won't have time to go
into here that I mentioned,
that perhaps I mentioned
in the last interview but...
So let's talk about their myth.
Ray Tarpey: Right.
Their mythology regarding
the origins.
Ray: Right.
Ray Tarpey: And so I began to
look at their myth and I began
to go to Edgar Casey so I could
see beyond the mainstream myths
of the [foreign word]
as the soul source
of the Asian presence
here in the Americas.
That the land bridge theory,
that all the American
Indians came across.
Where Edgar Casey was saying
there were these Asian
continents of Mu Lemuria in
the Pacific, and the Atlantis
in the Atlantic, with Maya
right at the crossroads.
The Maya were right
directly in-between them
with the thin piece of land.
So they became...
So did they get migrations
from both directions?
Ray Tarpey: They got them both.
They got both characters.
So my job became
finding the Lemuria layer
and the Atlantean layer in the
culture, within the culture,
that we call the Maya.
And I found it in their story,
their creation story,
the [foreign word].
Which is the great thing
that was allowed to come
through which was put
together by the shamans
who wrote it anonymously
because they risked their necks
to produce it during the
time of the conquest.
Yes. Ray Tarpey: And they
said -- in their they said,
"Let it be said,
let the light --
that the ancient light
come through in the time
of the Christian
domination of our land.
Let their be one record."
And it's a miracle but it's
intended, it's an infusion,
it's a help that was
given to the humans
from the Christ's that came.
So what does that
story look like?
We only have about
five minutes left.
Ray Tarpey: Oh yeah.
Can you tell that
story in five minutes?
Ray Tarpey: It's a story
of the progress from --
it's a story of ancient
contracts first.
They talk about the --
we are presently in the fourth
creation according to the Maya.
And it agrees with Edgar Casey.
That's true.
Ray Tarpey: In the
first instance it was --
the plans were created.
And I call that the
zero production.
Because the plants
are the most aligned.
They were the guardians
of the earth
and that was the first creation.
The second guardian creation
was that of the animals.
And it worked for a while
but it depends on --
because animals are
equal to us and according
to the American Indian even
more intelligent than we are,
because they've been
here longer.
So that unseats a lot that
goes on in the white place.
The red place feels the animals
and their intelligence much more
than the white place can.
The white place used to do
it in Egypt and in Babylonia
but that was all cut out
of their sacred books
and all the animals were
taken out of the new books
that they use in the
present civilization.
So all animals have
nothing to do with it.
We simply have dominion
over there.
Yes. Ray Tarpey: And so the
animals though refuse to talk.
They refuse to fulfill
their contract
and so they have to
sacrifice and go.
So as part of their ancient
contract they gave up to us
and their destiny is aligned
with ours by ancient contract.
And so it is that we were
allowed to eat their meat.
What greater sacrifice
could you have?
And they agreed to this.
And that's why when the Indian
goes into the sweat bath
and purifies himself he knows
that the animal will come to him
because it's contract.
But we have to deserve it.
And the Spaniards who first
came watched the Indians hunt
and observed it.
We have the record of it.
So that is the second level?
The animals.
Ray Tarpey: Yes and the
third level is Mu Lumeria,
the mud people.
And this was a sort of a
humanoid anthropoid realm
in its first instances with
a combination of animals,
and plants, and all
sorts of things
and it lasted a long time.
I couldn't give you the time
but its millions of years.
Yes, yes. Ray Tarpey: And that
was the first implantation
of what we would call humanoid.
And what we know as humanoid
would be at the 10 --
so far the 10 million year
frame but it's going to change.
Right. Ray Tarpey: It's
all that is all juts based
on our histories, our research.
So then the fourth level.
Ray Tarpey: And the
fourth level is us.
We are in the fourth -- because
we were willing to use speech.
And you say the animals
refuse that contract?
Ray Tarpey: They refuse to
talk beyond their own species.
They refuse to unite.
Because incarnation's
a shock to all of us.
Now what we remember to do --
what we were assigned to do
is not what we're going to do
when we go through the
shock portal of incarnation.
They wouldn't.
Yes. Ray Tarpey: It was
kind of a disobedience,
it's a kind of loss of memory.
Contracts are made and many
of our lifetimes are --
we don't fulfill what we came in
to do so we need another sojourn
on Mars or Venus, a
little therapy there for us
to come back into the --
what Casey called
the laboratorial --
the laboratory earth.
[Inaudible].
So the humans are
fulfilling the contract
by the simple element of speech?
Ray Tarpey: Speech.
Which is designed
ideally to unite?
Ray Tarpey: Which we
are doing right now.
Yes. Ray Tarpey:
We're accomplishing what
we're supposed to do.
Okay. Now we have a
couple minutes left here.
The reality is very hard to
piece all of this together.
Ray Tarpey: I know.
Unless -- you've only
scratched the surface.
You could talk for 24 hours
straight on these subjects.
Ray Tarpey: I'm writing
a book now so...
Okay. Ray Tarpey: My
wife is getting --
kicking me now to get
it done [laughter]
so it'll be coming out soon.
What you've given us, you've
scratched the surface.
Ray Tarpey: Yes.
We've got a little...
...bit of an idea of the reach.
I mean the incredibly
variable reach...
Ray Tarpey: Right.
...into ourselves,
into the past.
And as you say it's
not a consistent story.
Ray Tarpey: It has
to make sense though.
But we've seen it at
different times everywhere.
Ray Tarpey: It has to be simple.
Yes. Ray Tarpey: And
it has to make sense.
And it has to be made such
sense because I'm used
to talking to children.
Yes. Ray Tarpey: And
this generation is raised
on the internet.
I have an easier
time talking to them.
I thought they were
not focused [laughter].
I thought "Oh, they're
not studying."
But no, there's another
advantage.
They have an exposure that
the older people don't have.
Absolutely.
Ray Tarpey: And they
don't argue with me.
They -- their horizons
are wider so they're --
the things that are
being done for us...
And you really encourage
them to open their mind...
Ray Tarpey: Yes.
...to all new thought.
And one of the problems
has also been --
we just have a few
seconds left really --
that the bodies of information
that were left for us many
of them as you say in
China as in the Library
of Alexandria were burned.
Ray Tarpey: But culture
can never be destroyed.
Yes. Ray Tarpey:
We will find it.
And the [foreign word]
is there to help us.
Because as we read we will
get insights unbelievable.
As we channel we will get
insights unbelievable.
To be continued.
We're going to carry this
conversation beyond Mu Lumeria.
Ray Tarpey: Oh good.
Beyond the Maya, beyond
the Japanese into Atlantis.
Because many of us here now
are here because of that time.
Ray Tarpey: That's right.
So thank you very much.
Ray Tarpey: Thank you.
Until next time.
This topic never
ceases to fascinate me.
I hope you've found some real
intrigue in this, as well.
As Raymond says, "It's not
for us to attach to a version
of the truth; rather to
open to all new thought.
To live in a state of wonder."
In our next conversation as
just mentioned we'll speak
about the lost continent
of Atlantis.
Until next time thank you for
joining us here on Gaiam TV.
[ Music ]